---
layout: post
title: "Kodaikanal trip 2015"
---

It was Easter weekend of April 2015. A long weekend is a good time to
get away from hustle-bustle of Bangalore; that is what we did. We went
to the Princess of Hill Stations. &#x1f60a; 

Our bus reached Kodaikanal at 6 AM. We took our backpacks and started
walking to our hotel. It turned out to be a long walk before we reached
our hotel, thanks to Google Maps which was misinformed about the
location of our hotel. However, it was for the best; this was the only
time I felt mist on my cheeks in our entire stay at Kodaikanal. After
having breakfast, we set out to explore Kodaikanal. Taxis for
sightseeing are readily available in Kodaikanal. We hired one.

We first headed to see Kodaikanal Lake from the Upper Lake View Point.
Then we went to the Pine Forest. I had always longed to be amidst tall
pine trees covered in fog and mist. Even though that did not happen, the
Sun and clouds were playing hide and seek creating a nice atmosphere. We
spent some time there, ate really good carrots and had delicious
mushroom soup known as <i>kalan soup</i> by the locals.

<figure id="three-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/upper-lake-view.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/upper-lake-view-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Kodaikanal Lake as seen from the Upper Lake
            View Point"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/pine-forest.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/pine-forest-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Pine Forest"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/kalan-soup.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/kalan-soup-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of kalan soup vending place"></a>
    <figcaption>Kodaikanal Lake as seen from Upper Lake View Point, Pine
    Forest and kalan soup vending place</figcaption>
</figure>

We then headed to Moir Point, Guna Caves and Pillar Rocks. Moir Point
provides lovely view of hills and valleys. It also has a monument and a
overhead view point. Guna caves was formerly known as Devil&rsquo;s
kitchen; this place became a tourist spot known as Guna Caves after the
release of Tamil film called Gunaa whose climax was shot here. The caves
are about 500 feet deep and very dangerous, so they are closed for
tourists. We can only see them from afar. Pillar Rocks are a set of
three giant rock pillars 400 feet high. They are some sight to catch, as
soon as the clouds clear up.

<figure id="three-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/moir-point.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/moir-point-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Moir Point"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/guna-caves.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/guna-caves-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Guna Caves"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/pillar-rocks.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/pillar-rocks-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Pillar Rocks"></a>
    <figcaption>Moir Point, Guna Caves and Pillar Rocks</figcaption>
</figure>

There are no restaurants around these places but one can find small
stalls selling snacks, home made chocolates and decorative items. A
drink made from <i>Nungu</i> (sugar palm) was thirst quenching. We then
went to Green Valley View formerly called Suicide Point. There is about
a 4900 feet drop below; not to worry as the area is fenced. However, one
has to be careful about the monkeys; they are not just fond of food but
also the gadgets in your hand. We stopped by and saw a 500 year old tree
on the way to Coaker&rsquo;s Walk. Then we spent some time at the
Coaker&rsquo;s Walk. It is a 1 km paved pedestrian path constructed
along the edge of a hill.

<figure id="two-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/500-year-old-tree.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/500-year-old-tree-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of 500 year old tree"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/view-from-coakers-walk.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/view-from-coakers-walk-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of a view from Coaker&rsquo;s Walk"></a>
    <figcaption>A 500 year old tree and a view from Coaker&rsquo;s Walk</figcaption>
</figure>

In the evening we walked around the Kodaikanal Lake. It is a 5 km walk
on a nicely constructed footpath along Lake Road. Most of the shops are
on the other side of Lake Road and hence there is little obstruction
when you walk around the lake. The entire walk felt refreshing. We
stopped at Bryant Park. It is a botanical garden. It had some tiny
flowers and a fountain in a pool that is not well maintained. There is a
shop called Sangeeta Tea Corner outside the park. Every evening we used
to walk along Lake Road and have very nice ginger tea and bread omlette
at this shop.

<figure id="three-up">
    <a
    href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/bryant-park-fountain.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/bryant-park-fountain-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of a fountain at Bryant Park"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/sangeeta-tea-corner.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/sangeeta-tea-corner-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Sangeeta Tea Corner"></a><!--
    --><a
    href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/shops-along-the-lake-road.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/shops-along-the-lake-road-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of shops along the lake road"></a>
    <figcaption>A fountain at Bryant Park, Sangeeta Tea Corner and a few
    shops along the Lake Road</figcaption>
</figure>

On Day 2, we started with Gundar Falls also known as Neptune Pool.
There was little water. We stopped by to see the Palani Hills View on
the way to Mahalakshmi Temple situated on a small hill, on Poombarai
Road. We then headed to Poombarai village to see Kuzhandai Velappar
Temple. It is a 3000 year old temple. On the way we saw terrace farming
at Poombarai.

<figure id="three-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/gundar-falls-stream.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/gundar-falls-stream-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of a stream of water flowing out of Gundar Falls"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/gundar-falls.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/gundar-falls-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Gundar Falls"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/palani-hills-view.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/palani-hills-view-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Palani Hills View"></a>
    <figcaption>A stream of water flowing out of Gundar Falls, Gundar
    Falls and Palani Hills View</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure id="three-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/mahalakshmi-temple.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/mahalakshmi-temple-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Mahalakshmi Temple"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/terrace-farming-at-poombarai.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/terrace-farming-at-poombarai-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Terrace farming at Poombarai"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/kuzhandai-velappar-temple.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/kuzhandai-velappar-temple-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Kuzhandai Velappar Temple"></a>
    <figcaption> Mahalakshmi Temple, Terrace farming at Poombaraia and Kuzhandai Velappar Temple</figcaption>
</figure>

It was about 3 PM and the best part of the trip arrived. It was the
Pambar Falls trek. Pambar Falls is also known as Grand Cascade. It is a
group of four waterfalls spread over an area of about 1 km. One has to
trek through the forest beside the falls to visit each waterfall. There
is a cave near the fourth Pambar Falls. It is called Lion&rsquo;s Cave
by the locals. It was cloudy and drizzling for a while when we started
the trek; as a result the weather was cool. It turned out to be a lovely
trek. &#x1f60a;

<figure id="three-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/pambar-falls-1.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/pambar-falls-1-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of first of the four Pambar Falls"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/pambar-falls-2.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/pambar-falls-2-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of second of the four Pambar Falls"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/pambar-falls-3.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/pambar-falls-3-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of third of the four Pambar Falls"></a>
    <figcaption>First, second and third of four waterfalls of Pambar
    Falls </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure id="two-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/pambar-falls-4.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/pambar-falls-4-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of fourth of the four Pambar Falls"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/lions-cave.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/lions-cave-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Lion&rsquo;s Cave"></a>
    <figcaption>Fourth of the four waterfalls of Pambar Falls and Lion&rsquo;s Cave</figcaption>
</figure>

After this we went to Vattakanal trek. This trek begins a few hundred
metres near the starting point for Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose trek. There is a
very narrow gravel path that takes us from the tar road down into a thin
forest on the slope of the hills. The trek ends at the edge of the hills
that provides breathtaking views of the hills and valleys surrounding
Vattakanal. As soon as we reached the edge of the slope, I was in awe; I
felt out of the world or atleast the feeling was that of seeing Brian
Cox&rsquo;s Wonders of the Universe. I saw beautiful hills; the depth
was scary. I could not believe it was just there right in front of us.
It was an amazing view. &#x1f60a; We visited La Salette Church in the
evening. After the sunset we walked around in the Kodaikanal City
familiarized overselves with its streets and corners. We found some
restaurants around Seven Roads Junction at Club Road and Poet Tyagaraja
Road. The Tibetan restaurants close at about 8 PM and most other
restaurants close at about 9 PM. After walking up and down the hilly
streets we chose a place to dine at and called it a day.

<figure id="three-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/vattakanal-trek.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/vattakanal-trek-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Vattakanal trek"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/view-from-vattakanal-trek.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/view-from-vattakanal-trek-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of a view of the hills and valleys surrounding Vattakanal"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/la-salette-church.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/la-salette-church-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of La Salette Church"></a>
    <figcaption>Vattakanal Trek, a view of the hills and valleys
    surrounding Vattakanal and La Salette Church</figcaption>
</figure>

After two days in Kodaikanal we learnt that the drivers may sometimes
show us something but call it something else. For example, during the
Vattakanal Trek, our driver showed us a rock far off on one of the hills
and told us it was Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose. He said that it could only be
seen from afar. Later we found out that it was not true. That is
something they do when they cannot take us to some places due to lack of
time.  Similarly, when they cannot show a certain waterfall that
interests us, they would pick up one of the four waterfalls of Pambar
Falls and call it to be the waterfall we ask for. For example, when we
asked about visiting Bear Shola Falls, our driver showed us one of the
Pambar falls and told us that it was Bear Shola Falls. They seem to take
advantage of the fact that the Pambar Falls is not documented properly
either on the Internet or anywhere in the city.

It was Day 3 and the last day of our stay in Kodaikanal. It was time we
did boating at Kodaikanal Lake. We started quite early and hired a
rowboat from one of the boat houses. It was only a 15 minutes service by
our boatman; it was good. It would have been even better in the evening
when it is not sunny and the lake looks more beautiful. One can also go
for cycling and horse riding around the lake. We skipped them, partly
because the horses smelt bad, and mostly beause we wanted to see a few
more waterfalls and we also wanted to set our foot on Dolphin&rsquo;s
Nose.

<figure id="three-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/row-boat-at-kodaikanal-lake.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/row-boat-at-kodaikanal-lake-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of row boating in Kodaikanal Lake"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/lotus-at-kodaikanal-lake.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/lotus-at-kodaikanal-lake-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Lotus in Kodaikanal Lake"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/kodaikanal-lake.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/kodaikanal-lake-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Kodaikanal Lake"></a>
    <figcaption>Row boating and Lotus at Kodaikanal Lake, and Kodaikanal
    Lake</figcaption>
</figure>

We then headed to Silver Cascade Falls. It is a 180 feet waterfall
formed from the outflow of Kodaikanal Lake. Next we saw Bear Shola Falls
and Fairy Falls. They are almost dry during this time of the year.

<figure id="three-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/silver-cascade-falls.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/silver-cascade-falls-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Silver Cascade Falls"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/bear-shola-falls.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/bear-shola-falls-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Bear Shola Falls"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/fairy-falls.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/fairy-falls-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Fairy Falls"></a>
    <figcaption>Silver Cascade Falls, Bear Shola Falls and Fairy Falls</figcaption>
</figure>

Then we started the trek to Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose. The roots of the trees
have extended a long way and crisscrossed to form a nice stairway along
the trek. It was getting hotter as time went by. We stopped several
times here and there either to take a look at the hills and tall pine
trees or grab a refreshing drink from the stalls. Finally, we reached
Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose. It is a flat rock projecting over a breathtaking
chasm about 6600 feet deep. I had to go there a second time to actually
enjoy the place because when I went there the first time I was too
scared of the height to take a good look around. We then walked to
Difference Rock and Echo Rock.

<figure id="three-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/stairway-formed-by-roots.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/stairway-formed-by-roots-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of stairway formed by tree roots at
            Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose trek"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/tall-trees-at-dolphins-nose-trek.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/tall-trees-at-dolphins-nose-trek-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose trek"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/side-view-of-dolphins-nose.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/side-view-of-dolphins-nose-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of side view of Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose"></a>

    <figcaption>Stairway formed by tree roots at
            Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose trek, tall trees at Dolphin&rsquo;s
            Nose trek and side view of Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure id="three-up">
    <a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/standing-on-dolphins-nose.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/standing-on-dolphins-nose-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of us standing on top of Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/echo-rock.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/echo-rock-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Echo Rock"></a><!--
    --><a href="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/difference-rock.jpg"
       target="_blank"><img
            src="{{site.url}}/img/kodaikanal-trip-2015/difference-rock-small.jpg"
            alt="Image of Difference Rock"></a>
    <figcaption>Dolphin&rsquo;s Nose, Echo Rock
    and Difference Rock</figcaption>
</figure>

We were left with a couple of hours before boarding the bus back to
Bangalore. We went to Kodaikanal Lake for paddle boating. After boating,
we relaxed on Lake Road for one last time and said goodbye to Kodaikanal
until next time.
