---
layout: post
title: "Penang Island trip 2015"
---

After spending 3 nights at [Kuala Lumpur][KL], we headed to Penang
Island *(Pulau Pinang)*. We stayed at *Batu Ferringhi,* which is about
an hour drive from the airport by taxi. There are many beach resorts in
Batu Ferringhi and we had booked one such resort.

[KL]: {{site.url}}/blog/kuala-lumpur-trip-2015/

In the evening, we walked through Batu Ferringhi night market. It has
many vendors selling counterfeit products. At one end of the market
place, there are food joints. Kafe Long Beach is a popular place. It is
a food court with several vendors serving Malay, Japanese, Thai, Indian
and Chinese cuisines. One must try the waffles at Kafe Long Beach and
[Starfruit][SF] juice at I Love U cafe, a food court next to Kafe Long
Beach. The waffles are more like Indian *dosas*, and there is a wide
variety to choose from, each one differently delicious.

[SF]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carambola

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="kafe-long-beach-batu-ferringhi:inside-kafe-long-beach-batu-ferringhi" caption="Kafe Long Beach and interior of Kafe Long Beach, Batu Ferringhi" %}

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="batu-ferringhi-night-market" caption="Batu Ferringhi night market" %}

Penang has a very efficient and cheap public transport in the form of
Rapid Penang buses. The buses are air&ndash;conditioned and very well
maintained. All we needed was an Android app called [Penang Bus
Info][PBI] to find out how to get from one place to another using the
Rapid Penang buses.

[PBI]: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mypenang

On Day 2, we took Rapid Penang buses to reach funicular train station
*(Stesen Bukit Bendera)* at Penang Hill. The funicular train journey is
from Lower Station to Upper Station at top of Penang Hill. It is a
thrilling experience. &#x1f60a;

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="funicular-train-at-penang-hill" caption="Funicular train approaching Upper Station, Penang Hill; it climbs 691.4 metres in 5 minutes" %}

We spent some time at the top of Penang Hill enjoying the cooler air and
the view.

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="view-of-penang-from-top-of-penang-hill" caption="View of Penang, the Strait of Malacca and Penang Bridge from the top of Penang Hill" %}

Initially, I was quite scared of the trip back to the Lower Station due
to the steep slope. However, the ride turned out to be comfortable,
thanks to the clever design of the compartments. We thouroughly enjoyed
the ride. The floor of the entire train is shaped like a staircase.
Also, the floor of each compartment is parallel to the earth as opposed
to the slope of the hill. So we never feel we are lurching forward or
backward when the train is running.

We then took a bus to *Ayer Itam* and got down at Ayer Itam market and
walked to the *Kek Lok Si* Temple.

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="kek-lok-si-temple:inside-kek-lok-si-temple" caption="Kek Lok Si temple and interior of Kek Lok Si temple, Ayer Itam; the white and yellow structure at the top left corner of the first picture is the seven&ndash;storey pagoda which has 3 tiers: Chinese octagonal base, middle tier of Thai design and a Burmese crown; the second picture shows a few of 10,000 alabaster and bronze statues of Buddha" %}

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="kuan-yin-the-goddess-of-mercy" caption="Bronze statue of Kuan Yin, the Goddess of Mercy, Kek Lok Si Temple; it is 30.2 metres (99 feet) tall" %}

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="inclined-lift-at-kek-lok-si-temple:monks-praying-at-kek-lok-si-temple" caption="Inclined lift to reach Kuan Yin statue and the monks praying at Kek Lok Si Temple" %}

At Ayer Itam Market, we had the delicious *Asam Laksa*. It is sour, most
often tamarind&ndash;based, noodle soup. Going by popularity we also
ordered *Ais kacang* (pronounced Ice Kachang and literally means ice
beans). It is a dessert made of shaved ice, red beans, sweet corn, grass
jelly, ice cream, etc. It was not as tasty as it looked. &#x1f60f;

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="asam-laksa-at-ayar-itam:ice-kachang-at-ayar-itam" caption="Asam Laksa and Ice kacang" %}

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="durian-at-ayar-itam" caption="Durian, a very popular fruit in Malaysia" %}

[Durian][D] is regarded as the &quot;king of fruits&quot; by many people
in southeast Asia. It has a strong and penetrating odour which some
people find to be pleasant while others find it to be revolting. Durian
is banned from hotels, airline cabins and public transport.  In fact,
&quot;No Durian&quot; sign can be found on the windows of all Rapid
Penang buses. We ate this fruit but we did not like the taste or smell
of it.

[D]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durian

We then headed to George Town, the capital city of Penang. We spent the
rest of the day at George Town.

We saw the Blue Mansion *(Cheong Fatt Tze Mansion)*, a remarkable
Chinese mansion that has been restored and converted Bed &
Breakfast&ndash;cum&ndash;museum. We passed across a large Chinese
clanhouse *(Khoo Kongsi)*.

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="blue-mansion-george-town:khoo-kongsi-a-large-chinese-clanhouse" caption="Blue Mansion and Chinese clanhouse " %}

We took a Trishaw ride through popular streets of George Town. The
streets of George Town are famous for murals and street art. 

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="trishaw-ride-in-george-town" caption="Trishaw ride at George Town" %}

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="boy-on-a-bike-street-art:children-on-a-bicycle-street-art" caption="Boy on a Bike and Children on a Bicycle, famous murals at George Town" %}

On Day 3, we spent some time at the private beach accessible from the
resort we stayed in. We then headed to explore the rest of the George
Town. On the way, we visited Floating Mosque *(Masjid Terapung)*,
*Tanjung Bunga*.

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="private-beach-batu-ferringhi" caption="Private beach in Batu Ferringhi accessible from the resort we stayed in" %}

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="floating-mosque-at-tanjung-bunga" caption="Floating Mosque, Tanjung Bunga" %}

In George Town we went to *Wat Chaiyamangkalaram,* a Thai Buddhist
Temple. The temple looks colorful with statues and other mythical
creatures. We were asked to take off our shoes before stepping into the
temple. Inside the temple, there is a beautiful Reclining Buddha statue
which is the third largest of its kind in the world. There are many
smaller statues of different Buddhas and Thai deities.

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="wat-chaiyamangkalaram-thai-buddhist-temple-at-george-town:reclining-buddha-statue-at-wat-chaiyamangkalaram" caption="Wat Chaiyamangkalaram, a Thai Buddhist Temple and Reclining Buddha statue at Wat Chaiyamangkalaram, George Town; The statue is 33 metres (108 feet) in length and third largest of its kind in the world" %}

We walked through Little India. It is an ethnic Indian enclave that has
several Indian shops and restaurants. We could hear Bollywood songs and
see posters of Bollywood actors at this place.

We then took a Trishaw ride to Fort Cornwallis *(Kota Cornwallis).* At
the fort, there is a Light House that resembles a ship&apos;s mast and
it does not serve any navigational purpose now. There is a street called
the street of cannons which has many cannons lined up.  There is a
gunpowder magazine room which functioned as a storage room for
explosives during the British administration. There is also a bunker
gallery which served as prison. Queen Victoria Memorial Clock Tower
which is a testament to Penang&apos;s royal connections is also visible
from the fort.

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="sri-rambai-cannon-at-fort-cornwallis" caption="Seri Rambai Cannon at Fort Cornwallis, George Town; it is named after the Seri Rambai ship that sank with it when the British transported the cannon to Penang from Selangor when they were attacked by pirates. According to legends, the cannon surfaced from the sea on its own when a prince made a curse upon the cannon by tying a thread on his finger and commanded the cannon to resurface from the sea." %}

After spending some time at Fort Cornwallis we went to Made in Penang
Interactive Museum. It captures the essence of Penang Island with
several handmade miniatures depicting life at Penang back then and now.

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="miniature-local-trades-at-made-in-penang-interactive-museum:miniature-waterfront-commercial-buildings-at-made-in-penang-interactive-museum" caption="Miniatures: Local Trades, King of Fruits (Durian) & Queen of Fruits (Mangosteen) and Weld Quay Waterfront, Waterfront Commercial Buildings at Made in Penang Interactive Museum" %}

There are many wall paintings at the museum. Interactive Trick Art is
the spotlight. We had a good time experiencing it. The staff is very
helpful; they guide the visitors to stand at the right place while
capturing pictures with the art so that the right perspective is
captured.

With this our stay at Penang Island was coming to an end. We headed back
to Batu Ferringhi pondering over the time spent in Penang. Next morning,
we left to Langkawi.

{% include _image.html url="penang-island-trip-2015" images="3D-art-at-made-in-penang-interactive-museum" caption="Saved by Spidey &#x1f60a; at Made in Penang Interactive Museum, George Town" %}
