---
layout: post
title: "Langkawi Island and Rebak Island trip 2015"
---

In July 2015, [after spending 3 nights each at Kuala Lumpur][KL] and
[Penang Island][PI], we went to Langkawi. We stayed at [Vivanta by Taj,
Rebak Island][RI]. It is about 20 minutes drive from airport to Port
Cenang and 7 Minutes motorboat ride from Port Cenang to Rebak Island.
The resort staff picked us from the airport. The motorboat ride to Rebak
Island was a nice experience; the afternoon high waves had made the ride
more enjoyable.

Rebak Island, being a private island resort, is away from the main
Langkawi Island. Every time we needed to visit the mainland, we had to
make use of the boat transfers. The boat transfers were not a concern at
all for us because they were well scheduled and the service was good.
Also, at Port Cenang, the taxis were readily available. The last boat
back to the resort was at 7:30 PM. We had to plan our time at mainland
around this schedule. If one wants to spend evenings at mainland there
are 2 options: pay 160 MYR for a boat back to Rebak Island after 7:30 PM
or spend a couple of nights in a resort on main island and then check in
to Rebak Island. 

[KL]: {{site.url}}/blog/kuala-lumpur-trip-2015/
[PI]: {{site.url}}/blog/penang-island-trip-2015/
[RI]: https://www.tripadvisor.in/Hotel_Review-g298283-d557775-Reviews-Vivanta_by_Taj_Rebak_Island_Langkawi-Langkawi_Langkawi_District_Kedah.html

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="pick-up-boat-from-rebak-island-to-langkawi-island" caption="Motorboat transfers at Rebak Island, Langkawi" %}

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="piers-left-view-at-rebak-island:piers-right-view-at-rebak-island" caption="Piers at Rebak Island, Langkawi" %}

We had a different expectation of a private island resort due to our
trip to Maldives in 2014. Most of the time we were revisiting memories
from our stay at Sun Island, Maldives. Rebak Island is very small in
comparison.  Nevertheless, it is a great place in Langkawi to indulge in
tranquility. It has its own charm and we had a lovely time during our
stay there. &#x1f60a;

We had booked Deluxe Allure Suite Sea View room. Our accomodation in the
first floor was luxurious with the balconies overlooking the sea.  

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="view-of-sea-from-balcony-of-our-suite-at-rebak-island" caption="View of the sea from the balcony of the suite we stayed in at Rebak Island" %}

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="our-suite-at-rebak-island" caption="View of the suite where we stayed in during our stay in Rebak Island" %}

On Day 2, we went to explore the main island of Langkawi. We visited
Eagle Square *(Dataran Helang)* located in Kuah Town. According to one
of the interpretations, Eagle Square is the place that reflects the
origin of Langkawi&apos;s name. The square is marked by a reddish brown
eagle which is poised to take off. In old Malay, language *Helang* means
Eagle, and *Kawi* stands for reddish brown. This is one of
Langkawi&apos;s best known man made attractions.

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="eagle-square-kuah-town" caption="A massive 12 metre beautiful sculpture of a reddish brown eagle which is poised to take off at Eagle Square, Kuah Town" %} 

We then walked to Legenda Park *(Taman Legenda)* which is a recreational
area. It has many sculptures. It is dedicated to Langkawi&apos;s legends
and myths.

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="legenda-park:inside-legenda-park" caption="Legenda Park and interior of Legenda Park" %}

We then took a taxi to Langkawi Parade Mega Mall and shopped for a few
hours there. After this we headed back to Rebak Island. We spent the
afternoon in the swimming pool, one of the cleanest pools I have seen so
far. There is a sunken pool bar.

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="swimming-pool-at-rebak-island:children-swimming-pool-at-rebak-island" caption="Swimming Pool and Children&apos;s pool at Rebak Island" %}

The sea beach is not that great for sea lovers like us. Only a small
stretch of the sea is actually accessible. We found it to be lifeless
without much waves while we were there.

There is a beach side bar named Lepak Bar where we used to spend our
evenings. They had happy hours and it is a great place to chill and
observe the sea. However, one has to be prepared with mosquito repellant
to sit back and relax.

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="rebak-island-sea-beach:lepak-bar-at-rebak-island" caption="Rebak Island Sea Beach and Lepak Bar, a beach side bar at Rebak Island" %}

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="view-of-sea-beach-from-lepak-bar:islanders-rum-punch-at-lepak-bar" caption="View of Sea Beach from Lepak Bar and Islander&apos;s rum punch, a fine cocktail we found at Lepak Bar" %}

On Day 3, we went to Oriental Village to take a ride in Langkawi Cable
Car also known as Langkawi SkyCab and to visit Langkawi Sky Bridge.

There is a SkyDome, a 360&deg; panorama screen dome theatre located at
the Base Station of Langkawi Cable Car. The cable car ride from Base
Station to Top Station through Middle Station was exciting. &#x1f60a;
While on the ride, we saw a beautiful waterfall at a distance.

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="langkawi-cable-car-base-station:langkawi-cable-car-middle-station" caption="Langkawi Cable Car Base Station and Middle Station; The slope between the Base Station and the Middle Station is said to be the steepest in the world at 42&deg;. The journey from the Base Station to Middle Station covers 1700 meters in length. The Middle Station is at an elevation of 650 metres above sea level; The top station is located 708 metres above sea level is about 5&deg; C cooler than the lowlands." %}

We spent some time at the Top Station. It provides an amazing view of
the sea and cliffs overlooking the sea. The wind here is tremendous.
Then we walked to Sky Bridge which can be reached after a 15 minute trek
from Top Station through a temporary mountain track. One should not miss
experiencing Cable Car ride and Sky Bridge on visiting Langkawi.

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="view-of-langkawi-sky-bridge-from-top-station" caption="View of Langkawi Sky Bridge from Top Station of Langkawi Cable Car; Sky Bridge is a 125 metres (410 feet) curved pedestrian cable&mdash;stayed bridge in Malaysia." %}

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="langkawi-sky-bridge:view-of-cliffs-overlooking-sea-from-sky-bridge" caption="Langkawi Sky Bridge and View of cliffs overlooking sea from Sky Bridge" %}

After walking through the length of Sky Bridge a couple of times we
headed back to Top Station for the Cable Car ride back to Base Station.
We spent some time tasting delicacies at the Oriental Cafe.

Then we returned to Rebak Island. Our trip to Malaysia was coming to an
end. We had a scrumptious dinner. The food at the resort was good
throughout our stay with a variety of Indian and Malaysian items on the
menu. They also had a wide spread breakfast buffet while we were there.
There is a moon deck. The resort arranges dinner at the moon deck on
request.

Next morning, we returned to Bangalore with lots of memories from
Malaysia and plans to take more trips in future.

{% include _image.html url="langkawi-rebak-island-trip-2015" images="moon-deck-at-rebak-island" caption="Moon Deck at Rebak Island, Langkawi" %}
